

---- MEMORY ----

4KiB of addressable memory space

0x000 - 0x1FF 
Memory for the interpreter (registers, virtual hardware, display address space)


0x200 - 0xFFF
Memory for program data

The Stack -> 16x2B, it only stores the address of the parent routine, (up to 16
nested subroutine calls) -> Subroutine parameters are passed by register, not
by the stack

---- REGISTERS ----

16 1B registers (Vx), general purpose
+ 1 2B register (I), store addresses (only the 12 LSB are used)
-- Accessible but rather not use -- 
VF is used as flag (of, z,)
VF partitioning ->
0bit -> collision
1bit -> last addition executed overflowed
2bit -> last subtraction caused not borrow
3bit -> LSB was 1 in last right shift
4bit -> MSB was 1 in last left shift
7bit -> draw
-- Inaccessible registers to Chip-8 programs --
Since these can't be used by user programs, subroutine's parameters and jumps
sort of stuff must be handled by the interpreter
PC 2B register, same usage as I
SP 1B register, only 5 LSB could be used, accesses must be aligned to 2B


---- KEYBOARD ----
???

---- DISPLAY ----
32x64 display (make size parameterized)
The 4 MSB of a byte are used to display astherisks wherever there is a 1

Display at coordinates (Vx, Vy) n 8-bit (n-byte) sprites stored at I onto the display
The new pixels are XORred with the old pixels and if any happens to get cleaned, VF = collision (0x01)
The display is cyclic.

maybe create two new instructions
DRWH where the nibble is applied horizontally
DRVH where the nibble is interpreted as 0xVH where V and H are 4-bit values that will be rotated 4 bits to the right and applied vertically (ASR V 4)
and horizontally (ASR H 4)

---- OBJECTIVE ---- 
Take a Chip-8 program, load it in memory and execute it.
Along its execution you can set debugging breakpoints.

-- Program Loader --
Given the name of a text file, parse it: place constants and string literals (if
necessary) in their addresses (and keep the reference to those constants in the
instruction that used them). Load every instruction in order into memory.
Reset registers, flags, special registers, peripherals (everything)

-- Execution --

Iterate over memory until you hit with EOP (End Of Program)

-- Timers, sound and display --
For timers there will be a 'compiler directive' where to specify the address of the next block of code and whether
it is a subroutine and for which timer
Directives must start by !

Specify address directive:
!place_at=<addr>
Code
-- blank line to denote end of directive scope --

Specify subroutine:
!is_subroutine_for=[sound | delay]
Code
-- blank line to denote end of directive scope --

If you use the latter without the former directive the default subroutine addr will be used

HANDLE EXCEPTIONS
Check instruction access is not out of bounds

design debugger for interpreter programs

---- SUBROUTINE CALL ----
No caller context (register values) is saved

---- PARSING LABELS IS NOT EASY ----

Given the case where multiple directives have been designed, with labels in them and having cross-references between labels in different routines in
different memory addresses, it is not easy to determine exactly the address for each label without preprocessing before the actual code preprocessing.

The code as in commit 1a561a43443a0c37399c569b1a619c90206b468e does not make it easy to perform a double preprocessing so another approach has been 
designed.

For every piece of code representing a routine described by some directives a thread will be launched in order to place

1. create label dependencies graph
2. before processing any directive -> create new arc memory  
3. process directives by launching threads with code, arc memory and their graph nodes (if any)
4. once all directives have been launched, the main program will be processed.
5. if any thread for a given dependency hasn't had it resolved yet, it will wait blocked until it gets resolved
6. move to chip's memory the arc memory
7. destroy the graph




TODO
What happens with display collisions, overflow, borrows, etc... ✅ (used by the user and debugger)
Parse Directives ✅
2 new Display instructions
Operations to be defined
transform addresses from hex to base 10 ✅
Create labels as "mylabel": Code ✅
Define new directive for filling memory with data at specified address with !place_at
Screen ✅
Checkout offset in get_gfx_sprite
